you have to sit down grit your teeth and
do it I realized every time I'd be
struggling with all these equations
there was that pot of gold out there I
wanted to understand Einstein I wanted
to understand the quantum theory I
wanted to be the cutting edge of science
even if it meant that I had to sit at my
chair and simply crank out the math you
got to pay your dues everybody welcome
to impact Theory you're here my friends
because you believe that human potential
is nearly limitless but you know that
having potential is not the same as
actually doing something with it
so our goal with this show and company
is to introduce you to the people and
ideas that will help you actually
execute on your dreams all right today's
guest is a theoretical physicist and the
co-creator of string field theory he's
also a futurist and best-selling author
many times over who while still in high
school created a 2.3 million electron
volt particle accelerator in his garage
that required 400 pounds of transformer
steel and 22 miles of copper wire this
device astonishing for anyone at any age
caught the attention of Edward Teller
the father of the hydrogen bomb who then
helped him secure a scholarship to
Harvard an unlikely outcome perhaps for
a kid whose family had only recently
been released from a World War two
internment camp before he was born but
despite being an unlikely candidate for
the Ivy League he graduated first in his
class at Harvard and has since gone on
to become one of the most famous faces
in modern science he's written several
PhD level textbooks and authored more
than 70 scholarly articles published in
some of the world's most prestigious
journals as well as being a professor
who's dedicated his life to picking up
where Einstein left off in the quest to
develop a theory of everything in
addition to his work in academia he's
also written a string of New York Times
best-selling books on popular topics
such as parallel worlds the physics of
the future the future of the mind and
his most recent book on the future of
humanity itself his way of making even
the most complicated topics both
accessible and exciting has made him a
globally renowned speaker and one of the
most sought-after contributors in
science he's hosted for or collaborate
virtually every science-based channel
out there including Discovery BBC ABC
the Science Channel in the History
Channel he's also made guest appearances
on practically every major talk show and
been a featured columnist for
essentially every popular science-based
publication that there is if you have a
pulse you've almost certainly seen him
somewhere making you believe in the
beauty wonder and world of possibilities
inherent in science so please help me in
welcoming the host of both science
fantastic and explorations in science
dr. Michio Kaku thank you so much for
being here thank you after hearing such
a great introduction I can't wait to
hear the speaker myself well the good
news is he's gonna be here so various
way times are upon us both uh-huh I want
to start with your parents you are
insanely optimistic in terms of the
future when a lot of people are wildly
pessimistic but you seem like given that
your family wasn't turned right before
you were born I think your older brother
was born in the in terms that's right
mm-hmm how did that influence their
outlook on life how did that influence
your outlook on life well my parents
were incarcerated behind barbed wire
machine guns for four years and all
their assets were confiscated and after
they were released from the camp they
had nothing absolutely nothing and that
impressed upon me the fact that you have
to look at the big picture the smallest
unit of history I think is the decade
anything smaller than a decade you get
fluctuations and when you look at
history decade for a decade for a decade
you begin to realize tremendous progress
my grandparents came to California a
hundred years ago a hundred years ago my
grandfather was in the cleanup of the
San Francisco earthquake but imagine
back then life expectancy was 49 years
of age I mean you were born you had kids
and died life was a [__]
now we have an increased lifespan we
have all the luxury goods instead of
yelling out the window which is what my
grandparents did to communicate we have
the Internet and so when you look at it
the long-term decade for a decade you
realize the enormous progress that we've
made and that's why I tend to be more
optimistic than the average person and
we're your parents optimistic as well or
was that something that you had to
cultivate yourself growing up their
attitude was what is past is past you
pick up the pieces and you move on you
learn from it and you want to make sure
you don't break it again you want to
make sure it doesn't happen again
but then you move on that was their
basic philosophy of life fair enough
and how did you relate to your parents
you've told pretty famously the story
about asking your mom if you could build
an atom smasher and her saying yes just
take out the garbage first
was she really that sort of relaxed
about the crazy stuff that you were
doing or did you have to earn that she
didn't know what I was doing all she
knew is I was blowing out all the
circuit breakers in the house every time
the lights would flicker my mom my mom
would say where's the fuse box where is
the fuse box because it drained six
kilowatts of power all the electricity
in the house went into my machine but I
used to imagine what was she thinking
right she probably thought well maybe if
I buy him a basketball he'll learn
basketballs maybe if I buy him a
baseball if her gods say why can't you
find a nice Japanese girlfriend so I
thought to myself that she all these
must be going through her mind but the
bottom line is she knew it was important
it was the future and that's why she
said go for it
you've talked about that that kids you
called it the age 10 moment where kids
at age 10 they have this something
happens they see something watch a show
they see Sputnik whatever it was you had
an age 8 moment if I'm not mistaken what
was that moment that really led to you
going so deep into science there was one
moment that changed my entire life my
whole trajectory got derailed what
happened was the great scientist had
just died everyone was talking about it
and I'll never forget a picture was
flashed on the evening news
in all the newspapers it was a picture
of his desk and the caption said
something like this is the unfinished
manuscript of the greatest scientist of
our time so I said to myself why
couldn't he finish it and this is my
sign right yeah this was Albert Einstein
what was so hard that he could not
finish this one problem so when did the
library and I found out that it was
Albert Einstein and it was the theory of
everything the unified field theory
Einstein wanted an equation one inch
long that would allow us to quote read
the mind of God so I said to myself wow
that's for me that's what I want to work
on for the rest of my life to finish
that book well today we think we can do
it we think it is string theory and
that's what I do for a living that's my
day job that's pretty incredible though
for an eight-year-old when you go home
and tell your parents
hey and I'm just imagining like this
eight-year-old kid saying I'm gonna go
finish Einsteins book the thing he spent
the last 30 years of his life working on
and couldn't I think I'll be able to do
that how do people respond to you well
first of all I didn't know what I was
getting into I thought it was a homing
problem I thought well you talked to
your mom right you just ask your mom
dear why can't I think it's his problem
right what could be so hard that the
greatest scientist of our life couldn't
finish it so I said to myself I want to
be part of this mission I want to be
part of this grand journey to complete
this theory of everything so when I talk
to young people today I see that same
moment that epiphany when they buy their
first telescope they get their their
first astronomy book that that really
energetic glow that they have saying
that Wow the universe is incredible it's
beautiful so we're born scientists we're
born scientists until we hit the
greatest destroyer of scientists known
to science the greatest destroyer or
scientist is junior high school
every day we lose hundreds of thousands
of junior high school kids who think the
scientist boring they think the science
is useless memorizing facts and figures
that never gonna use again was there
something different going on when you
were in middle school that kept you from
falling prey to that like what did you
do to not get eaten alive by junior high
well not only was I fascinated by the
story of Einstein he could not finish
his great theory Saturday mornings I
would watch television and guess who was
on TV Flash Gordon
I mean rocket ships ray guns
invisibility shields I mean what's not
to love and I said to myself wow there's
a whole world out there the world of the
future then a few years later I began to
figure it out I began to figure out that
well yeah flash got all the credit he
got the girl bah blah blah but he didn't
make the series go
who made the series go was dr. zarkoff
the scientist he was the one who
invented the starship he invented the
invisibility shield he was the one who
kept the whole series going with his
inventions and then I began to realize
dr. zarkoff is a physicist I didn't know
the word I began to realize that
Einstein was a physicist so you see
physics not only unlocked the secrets of
the universe it also predicts the future
so when people come up to me and say
professor what has a physicist done for
me lately I tell them we physicists
invent one thing the future we invented
the transistor we invented the laser we
invented television we invented the
world wide web we created the space
program we created the x-ray machine
radar radio television all of that came
from the minds of physicists so I said
to myself that's what I want to do for a
living I want to make sure that I can be
part of the future to do what dr.
sarkoff did for Flash Gordon to make the
future possible so that's what we
physicists do we invent the future I
think one of your daughters became a
neuroscientist that's right she's a
brain scientist so how did you
keep that spark alive in her and and I
asked us from the perspective of there's
gonna be parents watching this that have
you know let's say their kids are in
that exact moment they're 10 11 12
they're about to have it crushed out of
them what were things that you did with
your kids to to really internalize that
the narrative of the the systems and the
concepts in the process versus the
memorization well I get a chance to
interview a lot of scientists for BBC
and and the Discovery Channel and my own
national radio show and the first
question that I always ask every single
scientist is what happened when you were
a kid
and they always say the same thing they
always start off with when I was 10
years old that's when the magic happened
it was a telescope it was a microscope
it was a visit to the planetarium it was
seeing the moon for the first time in a
telescope it was a journey that they
went into and it changed their life and
even when you're old and elderly and
you're a senior scientist you always go
back to that moment it's like a well you
draw water from that well forever it
energizes you it activates you because
you still remember being a child so with
my kids when they hit 10 I wanted to
make sure that we went through as many
planetarium shows tell God telescopes
and things like that even when they said
dad again another planetary can visit
another telescope because I wanted to
get them to feel that there was
wonderment in the world I wanted them to
be part of being able to influence
things to be able to change things
because they know how the world works
and so what are some key things if
somebody wants to really study and
understand where would you have them
start is it physics is the cosmology is
it biology
I'm you've done so much research on the
brain yourself and and you really are a
polymath like when I look at all the
things that you've just written about
let alone the things you can talk about
it's it's pretty extraordinary so where
do you have people start well when you
look at children and you look at all the
different theories about what
make successful kids you realize that
almost all the theories are wrong
because they haven't been verified like
for example high IQ you have a lot of
high IQ people who become marginal
members of society and so what is the
one psychological test that correlates
with success in life and I found out
that it's the marshmallow test it's the
test that has survived every challenge
you track students for 30 years for 30
years in different countries and you
find that they are more successful they
have a lower divorce rate higher income
higher status in society so what is this
marshmallow test you get kids and ask
them do you want a marshmallow now or
two marshmallows a few hours from now
and the kids that want the marshmallow
now tend to be those that want shortcuts
those that don't want to do the hard
work they want the the the quick kill
they grab that marshmallow but the other
ones say no wait a minute if I wait two
hours I can get two marshmallows I can
hold out there's a pot of gold waiting
for me they're not going to take the
shortcut and so you say to yourself well
that's a test for kids but then you
track them decade by decade by decade
and then you find out oh my god these
are the ones who go to college the ones
who hold out for that advanced degree
that don't want that simple pay off now
but are gonna delay gratification into
the future and so I realized that that's
the key to success in life not just
science but in life don't take the
shortcuts the thing that terrifies me
about the marshmallow study and I was
blown away by it just like you is how
young the kids are when they start
testing them is do you think so all
shorthanded to grit I don't know if
you've read that book by Angela
Duckworth or not incredible book and she
talks about that exact thing the
marshmallow test delaying gratification
the ability to like they use all the
tactics and stuff some kids get up and
sing they like put their head down they
count they like do anything they can to
distract themselves and so she said
basically finding these tools and
tactics to delay something she calls
grit
and I will totally agree that grit seems
the thing most correlated to future
success
but can it be taught well part of it is
your personality that is formed when
you're very young okay let's be very
clear about that but I think that yes I
think that for example it turns out that
if you do the same thing with poor
children and the same thing with
middle-class children it turns out that
poor children will on general go for the
for the quick kill because they know
that things disappear real fast if
there's money in the house it's gone in
the future so they learn something and
so some wonder the reasons why poor kids
will offer the marshmallow now is
because things disappear people steal it
people grab grab it and run away with it
and there you are with nothing take it
now that's their attitude and they learn
that and other people can realize that
going to college G their occupations out
there that give you a good income if you
can show people that there is a pot of
gold out there that yes you hold out you
go to college you'll learn the
discipline there's a pot of gold out
there you can learn to appreciate that
fact and I think you know when I think
about Einstein he spent the last 30
years of his life chasing after the
theory of everything he spent 10 years
of his life chasing after what is what
we now call relativity when I sang was
16 years old 16 years old he asked
himself a simple question can you out
risa like beam it took him ten years to
solve that problem when he was 26 years
old he figured it all out and that was
relativity and that changed the entire
world so talk about a marshmallow here's
a man who said he's going to spend 10
years of his life answering a question
can you outrace a light beam and the
answer is no the speed of light is the
ultimate velocity in the universe
Einstein is the cop on the block so
here's a man who really held out for
that marshmallow you've talked really
powerfully about what ended up letting
Einstein down and that was so in the
beginning he had these images he could
imagine himself riding on a light beam
and
he could imagine what it would need to
be as you turn it on that it would have
to continue and that the reason he
wasn't able to find the theory of
everything was he couldn't he didn't
have an image for it and in my own life
I will say very clearly my life is
demarcated into before I had a governing
metaphor for my life which I used the
movie The Matrix so the movie The Matrix
to me is such an awesome representation
of the human experience so whatever you
believe that's gonna be the limit of
what you can't achieve and if you can
allow yourself to believe something
other people think is impossible then
you're gonna be able to get there do you
have as you pursue the theory of
everything do you have an image in mind
that you think is gonna crack that wide
open for you well you're absolutely
right when Einstein got relativity he
didn't do it using pure mathematics one
of my favorite Einstein quotes is when
he talked to children he said the
children no matter how much difficulty
you have with mathematics mine were
worse so what was it that drove Einstein
it was a picture he had a picture of
himself being 16 years old running
neck-and-neck with a light beam what
would light look like if you could race
right next to it and then when he got
general activity he had another picture
that is like a trampoline that gravity
being nothing but the bending of space
and time is a fabric but on his third
try that is to get a theory of
everything he failed because he had no
picture and my other favorite Einstein
quote is unless you can explain
something to a child as a picture the
theory is probably worthless you've also
given a really cool picture of Newtonian
physics that is certainly was new for me
I'd never heard it before where you said
to clear your head and think you like to
go ice skate and you said that in that
moment in fact why is ice skating so
profound for you as it relates to
Newtonian physics you know we've been
around for hundreds of thousands of
years but we never came up with the laws
of motion because things bump into each
other there's friction it's complicated
the way things move but on an ice
skating rink is pure its pristine all
the second
Darry frictions are eliminated and
that's the arena of Isaac Newton Isaac
Newton's three laws of motion are
staring you right in the face every time
you go ice-skating so I'm not sure if
Newton ice skated but on an ice skating
rink everything is washed clear you
clearly see the physical laws of motion
and that's why when Einstein comes along
and goes beyond Isaac Newton Einstein
starts with clocks rockets meter sticks
so he starts with things that you can
see and touch a physical picture and so
all great ideas come from a picture for
Newton it was this arena you know
Shakespeare said that we're all actors
on a stage we make our entrances and
exits we're all actors on the stage of
life
that's the newtonian idea that the stage
of life is static and we make our
entrances and exits that's a newtonian
idea Einstein comes along and says not
so fast the stage is warped the stage
can have trapdoors when you walk along
the stage of life you think there's a
force moving you left and right because
the stage is uneven that's the theory of
gravity so all of it can be explained in
this very simple arena now with string
theory we think there could be trapped
doors in this stage of life wormholes we
think there could be all sorts of
bizarre things that don't exist in the
ordinary Newtonian idea and that gets us
into cosmology in the Big Bang so we see
that all great ideas come from very
simple physical pictures dude what
you're chasing is so incredible like and
and I hope that people watching don't go
oh man the theory of everything in
physics I could never do that and and
put it on the shelf
what I hope they're hearing is here
we've got somebody who when they were
eight they were inspired by a grand
vision they've been pursuing that grand
vision I think what would be really
helpful for them is to understand what
is your process so for instance while my
vision for what I'm trying to do with my
life pales in comparison to a theory of
the universe for me to approach it I
edit eight I write and
that lets me hear my subconscious right
so I'm able to hear those little
whispers of maybe this maybe that maybe
you should go explore this run this test
try that so I do that and then I make
lists so that I can see how one thing
feeds into the next feeds into the next
what is your process like when you say
I'm trying to find this theory of
everything what are you actually doing
and maybe asking it in a more concrete
way so when you go back to your lab and
you're like okay now is my time to
really think about progressing string
theory
what is that act is it imagining playing
the strings and and creating a universe
from that is it a meditative practice is
it math the way we come up with great
ideas is the way that musicians come up
with musical pieces if you were to film
a musician in the process of creating a
great work of art for the most part they
would stare out the window melodies
fragments fragments of melodies play in
their head until some of these melodies
begin to coalesce and then you go to a
piano plunk out some notes and then you
go back to looking out the window and as
I'm hearing this is that math so now
transpose this to the world of physics
when I look outside I see equations
I've memorized all the equations of
string theory I see all these equations
floating floating just like fragments of
melodies and then I try to piece them
together and see whether they fit no
they don't fit together yeah this one
fits together but then you got to do the
math then I get with a sheet of paper
just like a composer gets a piano a
sheet of paper I got a crank out all the
tedious details and then I go back to
staring out the window now if I was an
experimentalist I would never be able to
travel write books do interviews because
if my vacuum pump breaks I got to race
back to the laboratory
I'm a theoretician just like in a
composer I play with melodies called
equations in my head that's how we work
you talked earlier about IQ and as I
listen to you talk it is very tempting
to say wow like your IQ just allows you
access
something that I don't have access to
like I can't hold the multiplication
tables in my head let alone
string theory so how much of an impact
do you think that had on your life how
much of it is just brute intelligence
and how much of it is tenacity or just
passion well in my book the future of
the mine I had to ask that exact
question we physicists are now probing
the thought processes of the human brain
we want to know about what is mental
illness we want to know what is
schizophrenia why does the brain go
crazy and what is the creative process
and what is intelligence and what we
find out is that when we compare
ourselves to animals we realize that our
human brain really is different from the
animals first of all we have alligators
alligators understand space very good
understanding of space they find prey
they find mates they know where they are
in terms of space then you have monkeys
and then you have mice and then you have
dogs there are social animals they have
not just spatial hierarchy they have
social hierarchy they know who's the top
dog they know how to defer to other
members of the tribe that's social
consciousness then what do we have if
animals like alligators have spatial
consciousness if dogs have social
consciousness what kind of consciousness
do we have and I did some research on it
I found out that what we have in the
brain that is different from animals is
we understand time we understand the
future
we constantly daydream we scheme we plot
we constantly think about what could be
now let's do an experiment go home
tonight and teach your dog the concept
of tomorrow try it he's your dog the
concept of tomorrow the next week the
next year and you realize you can't
animals live in the present and that's
what I think intelligence is
intelligence is being able to map the
future simulate the future so if you get
an experiment people with low IQ and
high IQ put them in the same room and
you give them the same job
robbed a bank you'll find out that the
low IQ people probably do a much better
job of robbing a bank plotting the bank
robbery than high IQ people who get all
messed up with legal implications and
stuff like that
the point is that you can have some very
smart robbers because they see the
future and that's what we humans do that
animals cannot we constantly daydream we
constantly create worlds that don't
exist animals live in worlds that do
exist that is the present they don't
live in the past they have almost no
memory to speak of animals have very
little memory they have some but very
minimal we on the other hand we obsess
with memory and we obsess with the
future and to me that's what
intelligence is the ability to see the
future to simulate the future in complex
realistic ways so setting aside IQ for a
second if you had to identify what in
your life has been the personality trait
that has helped you the most what trait
would you put your finger on see that's
tough well Aristotle once said that all
of men's problems stem from the fact
that he cannot sit in a chair still for
hours in other words we get distracted
how many of us can sit in a chair and
single-mindedly work out one problem no
after a few minutes we began to get
fidgety we want to turn on the TV set
and listen to music or whatever but yeah
Irish startled said all myths problems
can be consent for the fact that we get
distracted so I think one of the things
I teach my kids is when I teach physics
to students I teach them that you have
to have but power you have to have the
ability to sit down this is what I tell
the kids sit down work on a physics
problem till blood comes out of your
forehead you see we have no gene for
physics there's no gene for science we
have a gene for gossip we have a gene
for superstition we have a gene for
jumping to conclusions and making fools
of ourselves we have no gene for science
science is an acquired taste there's no
gene for it therefore when I teach kids
how to become a scientist you
yeah you gotta sit down and have buck
power you got to sit down and in a quiet
room with a book and sweat blood
sometimes it was that something that
came easily to you or it's an acquired
taste and that was all driven you just
had so much interest in passing broccoli
you have to sit down grit your teeth and
do it I realized every time I was
struggling with all these equations that
was that pot of gold out there I wanted
to understand Einstein I wanted to
understand the quantum theory I wanted
to be the cutting edge of science even
if it meant that I had to you know not
go play outside I had to sit at my chair
and simply crank out the math you got to
pay your dues yeah no question how have
you dealt with or have you dealt with
self-doubt like you you've got such a
big problem staring you in the face how
do you have the courage every day to
just keep going after that well my
fundamental philosophy is if it's not
fun don't do it it's got to be fun
because ultimately that's what keeps you
going this is the problem that can sink
my teeth into and I would rather work on
one big problem and fail then work on
lots of little problems and succeed
Einstein said he had no use for
physicists who would take a block of
wood take the thinnest part of the block
of wood and drew as many holes as
possible in the thinnest part of the
block of wood that's called the salami
principle taking a simple problem
cutting it up picked a lot of pieces so
you have lots of publications that are
worthless that's really interesting and
I really hope people pay attention to
that use you were being interviewed by
somebody when I was doing my research
and they were saying that oh people have
said about Einstein since he spent the
last thirty years chasing this solution
and he didn't get it he should have just
taken that time off and gone fishing and
I was like whoa like that struck me as
actually really the opposite of what you
would want to do for that very reason
that if you enjoy the process then then
the process is all that matters and so I
see this law in entrepreneur circles
where people their version of the theory
of everything is money right they want
to be financially successful
and the hard truth is the struggle is
guaranteed the success is not right you
see what Einstein did was he set the
agenda yes he failed I can read that
book now I can read the book of Einstein
and I can see all the dead ends I can
see where he went and where he he got
stuck I can see these things now but the
fact is he was a trailblazer he set the
agenda for the next 50 years of physics
and for that I say to myself wow even
when he failed even when he failed he
set the agenda for modern physics for
the next 50 years and that agenda was
unification that was something that was
alien to the world of science
unification because science at that
point was to try to understand lightning
try to understand heat individually the
idea of a unified theory of all these
phenomenon was totally alien to most
physicists so now we understand that
that is the mantra that is the goal
unification and that we think will
unlock some of the deepest secrets of
the universe itself really interesting
it's absolutely astonishing how
accessible you make the information I've
read a lot of your books all incredible
the most recent one the future of
humanity a is just incredibly timely
given what's going on what made you want
to write that book and what are some of
the the big conclusion should we fear
the future be excited well you know the
dinosaurs did not have a space program
that's where they're not here today by
rights they should be dinosaurs in this
room right they rule the world for 200
million years but they're no dinosaurs
here today because that asteroid wiped
them out because they didn't have a
space program imagine that event 65
million years ago the dinosaurs look up
see this gigantic asteroid headed at
them and they say to themselves oh
that's the end well they're not here
today anymore but we are we can decide
our own fate and that's why I think that
we should seriously think about the
space program again because prices
are dropping like a rock you realize the
movie the Martian with Matt Damon great
movie the Martian right that movie costs
a hundred million dollars but the
Indians put a space probe on Mars for
seventy million dollars you realize that
a Hollywood movie about Mars cost more
than an actual space probe that goes to
Mars they are to give an Oscar for the
Best Supporting spacecraft so that's how
cheap things things have become now NASA
used what used to be criticized as the
agency to nowhere
it boldly goes where everyone has gone
before
people were bored with NASA there was no
Sputnik moment there was no event that
galvanized young people then just last
month the Falcon Heavy lifted up Cape
Canaveral and millions of people watched
it on television why did this one event
galvanize millions of people because
that rocket the Falcon Heavy by Elon
Musk was a moon rocket for the first
time in 50 years we have launched a moon
rocket from Cape Canaveral and how much
did it cost the taxpayers z-ro think
about that we got a moon rocket for free
and he wants to go to the moon and then
now he wants to go to Mars Mars with
even bigger rocket called the B F our B
for big or for rocket and F is your
imagination for free he's doing it so
this is a new age a new age a space
travel now I was reading about Elon Musk
but he was a kid he read the same book
that I read and that was Asimov's
foundation series about a Galactic
Empire from that he took the idea that
we should become a multi-planet species
and I've heard that so often Carl Sagan
told me that we should be a two-planet
species because we live in the middle of
a cosmic shooting gallery
one day we too could say oh when that
asteroid comes barreling from outer
space we need an insurance policy we
need a back-up plan and that's where the
space program
comes in today it's cheaper than before
and when we go out there perhaps we'll
encounter other intelligent life forms
in the universe we've just barely
scratched our understanding of the
universe so why now did you write this
book now to help people see a positive
vision for the future because the book I
would say is undeniably positive because
things are changing you know the price
of rockets it used to cost $10,000 to
put a pound of anything into orbit
that's your weight in gold think of your
body made out of solid gold that's what
it costs to put you just in an orbit
around the planet Earth now prices are
dropping by a factor of 10 and so it
means that space is gonna open up it's
going to open up to entrepreneurs in
fact the next entrepreneur to jump into
the game is the richest man in the world
Jeff Bezos he has endowed his entire
spaceport in Texas and he wants to go to
the moon and he wants to set up an
Amazon delivery system to the moon so if
you're an astronaut on the moon he want
to order a book from Amazon there's a
rocket that'll take off from Texas and
give you your your book on on the moon
so billionaires are jumping in Google is
jumping in now Google billionaires are
backing a plan to mind the asteroid belt
and so we have Tesla Motors building us
a moon rocket and a Mars rocket we have
Amazon pioneering a delivery system to
the moon we have Google thinking about
building rockets that can rope an
asteroid bring the asteroid back to
earth to mine for rare minerals it's a
new ball game it's just totally new who
would have thought
during the 60s that private individuals
could do this that's how cheap things
have become what do you hope comes out
of people reading your book like what's
your fantasy would it inspire a nation
of space-going people is it to get more
people excited about stem to get in and
become the scientists that are creating
the next generation of technology
well you know right now there's a
national debate about jobs national
debate people are hurting right now and
where do jobs come from where does
prosperity come from first of all we
talked to a lawyer a lawyer would say
that prosperity and money come from
lawsuits you sue Peter to pay Paul I'm a
scientist we say that wealth all this
wealth we see around us comes from
Science and Technology from the steam
revolution which gave us the Industrial
Revolution and machines to the electric
revolution which gave us dynamos and
television radio to the high-tech
revolution of today we've had three
waves of wealth generation from science
and physics and technologies now we're
entering the fourth wave artificial
intelligence biotech and nanotech these
are going to be the drivers of wealth
generation so I tell young people if you
want a job in the future go with the
wave the fourth wave beyond steam power
electricity and computers the fourth
wave is artificial intelligence nanotech
and biotech that's where the jobs are
gonna be so I know you've said that you
wouldn't be one of the early Mars
settlers but what do you think are the
realistic timelines for terraforming
Mars and actually sending a thriving
colony there well let's take a look at
the timeline nASA has published it now
we're going back to the moon next year
think about that after a 50 here gap
next year December 2019 we're gonna send
an unmanned Orion space capsule right
around the moon four years after that
2023 we're back to the moon with
astronauts now it takes three days to go
to the moment three days to come back
you could do it in one week I firmly
believe that our grandkids will
honeymoon on the moon
three days instead of simply waxing
eloquent about the moon at night honey
why not visit the moon it's going to be
that cheap and that close to us and then
by 2030 the first settlements will go to
Mars and so 2030s about the earliest we
can conceive up to
go to Mars and I think the first
settlers are going to be pretty hearty
people they're gonna be pilots they're
gonna be Daredevils you're going to be
pretty pretty rugged to withstand the
journey to Mars and to begin to create a
settlement so as you look out and as we
terraform Mars start having a base of
people that live there what is really
exciting for you is its ending the
postage sized spaceships into deep space
into Alpha Centauri is it the von
Neumann probe am I saying that right
yeah were they self replicate and they
take over what what actually in those
you know possible scenarios is exciting
for you well I'm a physicist so I think
that yes we should go to Mars because we
need an insurance policy we don't want
to bankrupt the earth we don't want to
ignore global warming and problems of
the earth but yeah a settlement
insurance policy but as a physicist I
would like to make contact with
intelligent life in the universe because
we're gonna have starships Stephen
Hawking talked about shooting chips
chips energized by laser beams to 20%
the speed of light that'll reach the
nearby stars the first starships could
be this big energized by laser beams and
maybe we'll make contact with alien
civilizations in space now a lot of
people email me and say to me professor
this is old hat I've been abducted by
flying saucers I know the aliens are out
there because I've been on their
spacecraft so I tell these people the
next time you get kidnapped by aliens
from out of space
steal something I don't care what it is
an alien paperweight an alien paperclip
an alien pencil steal something so you
have bragging rights afterwards and
remember there's no law against stealing
from an extraterrestrial really fast run
the math for us I I heard you walk
through once like just in our own galaxy
how many earth-like in the Goldilocks
zone liquid water the whole nine planets
there might be let alone the entire
universe right believe it or not we
scientists have identified four thousand
planets going around other stars which
means we now have a census
first census of the galaxy itself when
you go outside tonight and look at the
stars on average every single star has a
planet going around it let me repeat on
average every single star you see at
night has a planet going around it so
when you go on tonight
realize that somebody could be looking
back at you wondering is there any
intelligent life on the earth think
about that the galaxy could be teeming
with civilizations now earth-like
planets are a little bit more rare but
we estimate there could be several
billion several billion earth-like
planets in our own back yard now most of
them perhaps either have no life on them
or microbial life but a fraction of them
could eventually have life in the oceans
which could eventually have evolution
giving rise to something that looks like
us so you can't rule it out that
advanced civilizations could be out
there that ivar more advanced than than
us so given them that the math checks
out pretty well and that we may not only
find life in the universe we find life
in our own backyard assuming that they
were at least a thousand years more
advanced than us and they were willing
to talk which I know you said is
probably not the case but let's just
pretend for a second they were willing
to talk and you you could only ask them
one question what would you ask well
first of all if you're walking down a
country road in the forests and you meet
a squirrel or a deer do you try to talk
to the deer and try to have a
conversation with the squirrel well
maybe at first but eventually you get
bored because they don't talk back to
you well if an alien civilization that
advanced can come to our earth then we
are like squirrels to them
we're like deer we have nothing to offer
them we think we're so great that
they're gonna want to come thousands of
light-years to land on the White House
lawn and give us the benefits of all
their technology it's like meeting an
anthill and you go down to the ants and
say I bring you trinkets
I bring you beads I'll give you nuclear
energy take me to your and queen
or maybe you have this politically
incorrect urge to step on a few of them
so first of all I think that for the
most part they're gonna leave us alone
but if I had a chance to ask them one
question I would ask them well what does
it all mean
is there this fabled one-inch equation
that would allow us to understand the
thoughts of God is there just one
comprehensive theory what does it all
mean is there a God equation out there
that allows us to make sense of this
great universe of ours and just from my
own curiosity if they said there was and
will tell you if you want but you could
discover it yourself would you rather go
discover it or would you rather they
tell you and shave some number of years
off yeah I guess I would rather do it
myself or we humans would have to say to
ourselves okay yeah we got to do it
because it's too easy it's too easy if
somebody gives us a platter with the
thing with the equation there some
people ask me well what is the meaning
of life then and I say to myself that if
somebody gives you from up high the
meaning of life
it's too easy I mean is that all
somebody gives you the meaning of life
from from from the heavens
my attitude is that it's self discovery
we have to reinvent ourselves that the
meaning of life is rediscovery that we
have to recreate ourselves rather than
having it given to us from a celestial
being in outer space I love that all
right before I ask my last question
where can these guys find you online
well I have a website em kaku org my
Facebook site we hit three million fans
on Facebook that's really amazing so my
final question is what's the impact that
you want to have on the world well I
think we are headed for a type one
civilization but right now we are type
zero a type one civilization is
planetary they have a planet they can
control the weather they harness
planetary forces we are type zero
we're fragmented we just came from the
Swan
a few centuries ago we're wracked by
sectarianism the fundamentalism religion
all these different kinds of factional
struggles but we are about a hundred
years away from becoming type one
planetary and a few thousand years of
becoming type 2 which is stellar having
the power of a star like Star Trek Star
Trek would be a typical type to
civilization a type 3 civilization would
be like Star Wars galactic roaming the
Galactic space lanes now we are type
zero but we're on the verge of becoming
type one planetary so I would like to
help in this endeavor I would like to
help the transition from type zero to
type one we see evidence of this
everywhere we look what is the Internet
the Internet is the first type one
telephone system the first type one
technology to land in our lap and
already is causing democracy to spread
around the world because people that are
cut off impoverished making it on the
web they can have their voices heard and
democracies do not war with other
democracies think of every war that was
fought that you memorized in grade
school every single war they've been
between kings queens emperors
dictatorships but never between two
major democracies so the transition from
type zero to type one is a democratic
transition it's a transition of
empowerment people are going to be
energized because their voice is going
to be heard around the world
so I would like my contribution to help
to accelerate and to smooth out the
bumps of this grand transition the
greatest transition in our civilization
from type zero to type one Oh dr. Kafka
thank you so much
guys guys guys when I say that you're
gonna want to dive into this man's world
read all of his books listen to the just
myriad shows that he puts out there the
amount of energy that he's put into
bringing to the world the optimism that
he's cultivated over a lifetime to
sharing that excitement when he was a
kid that's been the well that he's drawn
from his whole life he gives so freely
of that and tries to get as many other
people excited about that as humanly
possible
his most recent book the future of
humanity is absolutely breathtaking in
its scope and what it covers but most
importantly in the way that it will
hopefully encourage other people to see
that beautiful future to help bring it
into actually being and it is incredible
when somebody as accomplished as he is
with the just brain power that he has
instead of just staring out the window
for his entire career does that but also
spends time engaging with other people
and trying to make sure that everybody
has somebody that believes in them
that's trying to show them the beauty
and science it's trying to give back
that's trying to get people excited so
that we can together build a better
world I will forever be grateful to him
for that something that I have not told
him the one of if not the very first
audible book I ever read was his and
I've had a long-standing relationship
with his information and it is one of
the reasons that I am a techno amidst to
my absolute core so I hope that you guys
will have a similar response to somebody
who has given so freely of himself as I
have it's been incredible I am eternally
grateful and I think that you guys will
be as well if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care
[Applause]
everybody thank you so much for watching
and being a part of this community if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're gonna get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential